Microsoft Azure defender for storage
provides an extra layer of security intelligence that detects unusual and
potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit storage accounts. This layer of protection allows you to
address threats without being a security expert or
managing security monitoring systems. This does incur an additional cost
with its own pricing structure. Security alerts are triggered
when anomalies in activity occur. And these security alerts are integrated
with Azure security center and are also sent via email to subscription
administrators with details of suspicious activity and recommendations on how
to investigate and remediate threats. Azure defender for storage is
currently available for blob storage. Azure Files and
Azure data Lake Storage Gen2. Account types that support Azure
defender include general purpose V2, block blob, and blob storage accounts. And Azure defender for storage is
available in all public clouds and US government clouds, but
not in other sovereign or Azure government cloud regions. Accounts with hierarchical
name spaces enabled for data lake storage support transactions
using both the Azure blob storage APIs and the data lake storage APIs. And Azure file shares support
transactions over SMB. You can turn on Azure defender for storage in the Azure portal through the
configuration page of the Azure storage account or in the advanced security
section of the Azure portal. To turn on Azure defender for
storage, follow these steps, first launch the Azure portal. Next, navigate to your storage account,
then under settings, select advanced security. Finally, select enable Azure defender for
storage. So how does the Azure environment
handle security anomalies? When storage activity anomalies occur,
you receive an email notification with information about
the suspicious security event. A typical email will include the nature
of the anomaly, the storage account, name, the event time and
storage type, potential causes, and guidance around investigation and
remediation steps. Finally, the email will also include
details about possible causes and recommended actions to investigate and
mitigate the potential threat. You can review and
manage your current security alerts from Azure security centers
security alerts tile. Selecting a specific alert
provides details and actions for investigating the current threat and
addressing future threats.