Let's start by taking a quick look
at Microsoft Azure storage services, data styles and accounts. Microsoft Azure storage is a managed
service that provides durable, secure and scalable storage in the cloud. Let's break these terms down. By durable, this means that the redundancy
ensures that your data is safe in the event of transient hardware failures. You can also replicate data across data
centers or geographical regions for extra protection from local catastrophe or
natural disaster. Data replicated in this way remains highly
available in the event of an unexpected outage. In terms of security, all data written to Azure storage is
encrypted by the service as your storage provides you with fine grained control
over who has access to your data. When it comes to scalability,
Azure storage is designed to be massively scalable to meet the data storage and
performance needs of today's applications. With regards to management,
Microsoft Azure handles maintenance and any critical problems for you. A single Azure subscription can
host up to 200 storage accounts, each of which can hold
500 terabytes of data. Azure storage includes four types of data. There are Blobs which are massively
scalable object store for text and binary data. These can include support for
Azure data lake storage gentoo. Another data type is managed file shares
for cloud or on premises deployments. A third type includes queues
which are a messaging store for reliable messaging between
application components. And there is table storage or
a no sequel store for schema less storage of structured data. Note, the table storage is
not covered in this lesson. All these data types in Azure storage are accessible from anywhere in
the world over HTTP or HTTPS. Microsoft provides software
development kits or SDK for Azure storage in various languages and
arrest API. You can also visually explore your
data right in the Azure portal. Azure blob storage is an object
storage solution optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured
data, such as text or binary data. Blob storage is ideal for serving images
or documents directly to a browser, including full static websites,
storing files for distributed access, streaming video and audio,
storing data for backup and restoration. Disaster recovery and
archiving and storing data for analysis by on premises or
Azure hosted service. Azure storage supports
three kinds of blobs. Block blobs are used to hold text or
binary files up to 5 terabytes, 50,000 blocks of 100 megabytes in size. Page blobs are used to hold random
access files up to 8 terabytes in size. Finally, append blobs are made up
of blocks like block blobs, but they are optimized for append operations. The primary use case for block blobs is
the storage of files that are read from beginning to end, such as media files or
image files for websites. And they are named block
blobs because files larger than 100 megabytes must
be uploaded a small blocks. These blocks are then consolidated or
committed into the final blob. Page Blobs are used primarily as the
backing storage for the virtual hard disks or VHDs used to provide durable discs for
Azure virtual machines or Azure VMs. They are named page blobs because they
provide random read write access to 512-byte pages. These blobs are frequently used for
logging information from one or more sources into the same blob, and to
give an example, you might write all your trace logging to the same append blob for
an application running on multiple VMs. A single append blob can
be up to 195 gigabyte. Next, we will explore
Microsoft Azure files. Azure files enables you to set up highly
available network file shares that can be accessed using the standard server
message block or SMB protocol. This means that multiple VMs can share
the same files with both read and write access. You can also read the files
using the REST interface and the storage client libraries. Finally, you can also associate
a unique URL to any file to allow fine grained access to a private file for
a set period. File shares can be used for many common
scenarios, storing shared configuration files for VMs, tools or utilities so
that everyone is using the same version. Log files such as diagnostics,
metrics and crash dumps and shared data between on
premises applications and Azure VMs to allow migration of
apps to the cloud over a period. Let's take a look at how
the Azure Queue service works. The Azure Queue service is used
to store and retrieve messages. Queue messages can be up
to 64 kilobytes in size and a queue can contain millions of messages. Finally, queue are used to store lists of
messages to be processed asynchronously. You can use queue to loosely connect
different parts of your application together. For example, we could perform image processing on
the photos uploaded by our users. Perhaps we want to provide some sort of
face detection or tagging capability so people can search through all the images
they have stored in our service. And we could use queues to pass messages
to our image processing service to let it know that new images have been
uploaded and are ready for processing. This sort of architecture
would allow you to develop and update each part of
the service independently. Next, you will learn how to
create a storage account. An Azure storage account contains all of
your Azure storage data objects blobs, file shares, queues, tables and disks. The storage account provides a unique
name space for your Azure storage data that's accessible from anywhere
in the world over http or https. Finally, data in your storage
account is durable and highly available, secure and
massively scalable. Azure storage offers several
types of storage accounts. Each type supports different features and
has its own pricing model. Finally, make sure that you consider these
differences before you create a storage account to determine the type of account
that's best for your applications. Standard General Purpose v2 is the
standard storage account type for blobs, file shares, queues and tables, it is recommended from most
scenarios using Azure storage. And the premium storage account type
is for block blobs and a pen blobs, this is recommended for scenarios with
high transaction rates, scenarios that use smaller objects or those that require
consistently low storage latency. Premium storage account type is for
file shares only. It is recommended for enterprise or
high performance scale applications. This is useful if you require both SMB and
NFS, file share support. Finally, the premium storage account
type is for page blobs only. If you are interested in learning more
about creating storage accounts, make sure to go through the create an Azure storage
account module in the learning portal.