Contoso relies heavily on massive amounts
of data in Microsoft Azure storage. Contoso's as many applications rely
on blobs on structured table storage. Azure Data Lake and server message block,
or SMB-based file shares. After Contoso's competitor
has a data breach. Contoso tasks the network administrator to
check the organization's data security. As Contoso's is data consultant, you assure the network administrator that
Azure storage accounts provide several high level security benefits for
the data in the cloud. Protect the data at rest,
protect the data in transit. Support browser cross domain access. Control who can access data. And audit storage access. Now you will look at different
forms of encryption, starting with encryption at rest. All data written to Azure storage is
automatically encrypted by storage, service encryption or SSE. With a 256-bit advanced encryption
standard or AES cipher. And his FIPS 140-2 compliant. And SSE automatically encrypts data
when writing it to Azure storage. And when you read data from Azure storage, Azure storage decrypt
the data before returning it. This process incurs no additional
charges and doesn't degrade performance. It can't be disabled. For virtual machines or VMS, Azure
lets you encrypt virtual hard disks or VHDs by using Azure disk encryption. And this encryption uses bit locker for
Windows images or DM-script for Linux. Azure key vault stores the keys
automatically to help you control and manage the disk encryption keys and
secrets. So even if someone gets access
to the VHD image and downloads, they can't access the data on the VHD. Keep your data secure by enabling
transport level security between Azure and the client. And always use https to secure
communication over the public internet. When you call the rest APIs to access
objects in storage accounts, you can enforce the use of https by requiring
secure transfer for the storage account. After you enable secure transfer,
connections that use http will be refused. And this flag will also enforce
secure transfer over SMB by requiring SMB 3.0 for
all file share amounts. Let's see how CORS support works. Contoso stores several website
acid types in Azure storage. These types include images and videos. To secure browser apps Contoso locks
get requests down to specific domains. Azure storage supports cross
domain access through cross origin resource sharing or CORS. CORS uses http headers so
that a web application at one domain can access resources from a server
at a different domain. Finally, using CORES web apps ensures that
they load only authorized content from authorized sources. CORS support is an optional flag
you can enable on storage accounts. The flag as the appropriate headers when
you use http get requests to retrieve resources from the storage account. Next we will look at how to work with
RBAC or role based access control. To access data in a storage account, the
client makes a request over http or https. Every request to a secure
resource must be authorized. The service ensures that the client
has the permissions required to access the data. You can choose from
several access options. Arguably the most flexible
option is role based access. Azure storage supports Azure Active
Directory and role based access control. Or RBAC for both resource management and
data operations. To security principles you can assign
RBAC roles that are scoped to the storage account. Use Active Directory to authorize
resource management operations such as configuration. Finally, Active Directory is supported for
data operations on blob and queue storage. To a security principle or
a managed identity for Azure resources, you can assign RBAC roles that are scoped
to a subscription, a resource group, a storage account and
an individual container or queue. Auditing is another part
of controlling access. You can audit Azure storage access by
using the built in storage analytics service. Storage analytics,
logs every operation in real time. And you can search the storage
analytics logs for specific requests. Filter based on
the authentication mechanism, the success of the operation and
the resource that was accessed.