Microsoft Azure Blobs
are files for the Cloud. The term BLOB is an acronym
for Binary Large Object. Apps work with Blobs in much the same way as they would work with files on a disk, like reading and writing data. Unlike a local file, Blobs can be reached from anywhere with an
Internet connection. Azure Blob Storage
is unstructured, meaning that there
are no restrictions on the kind of data it can hold. For example, a Blob can
hold a PDF document, a JPEG image, a JSON file, video content, and so on. Blobs aren't limited to
common file formats. A Blob could contain
gigabytes of binary data streamed from
a scientific instrument, an encrypted message for
another application, or data in a custom format
for an app you're developing. Blobs are usually
not appropriate for structured data that needs
to be queried frequently. They have higher latency than memory and local
disk and don't have the indexing features that make databases efficient
at running queries. Blob Storage is
ideal for storing up to eight terabytes of data
for virtual machines, storing data for analysis by an On-premises or Azure
hosting service, storing data for backup and restore disaster
recovery and archiving. Streaming video and audio, storing files for
distributed access, and serving images or documents
directly to a browser. Many Azure components use
Blobs behind the scenes. For example, Azure Cloud Shell stores your files
and configuration in Blobs and Azure Virtual Machines uses Blobs for
hard disk storage. Also, Blobs are frequently
used in combination with databases to store
non-query-able data. For example, an app
with a database of user profiles could store
profile pictures in Blobs. Each user record in the
database would include the name or URL of the Blob containing
the user's picture. In Blob Storage, every Blob lives inside
a Blob container. You can store an unlimited
number of Blobs in a container and an unlimited number of containers in a storage account. Remember that
containers are flat. They can only store Blobs,
not other containers. Blobs and containers
support metadata in the form of
name-value string pairs. Your apps can use metadata
for anything you like. A human-readable description of a Blob's contents
to be displayed by the app or a string
that your app uses to determine how to process
the Blob's data and so on. Finally, Blob Storage
does not provide any mechanism for searching
or sorting Blobs by metadata. For information about using
Azure Cognitive Search, at the end of this module, see the further reading section. The Blob Storage API
is REST-based and supported by client libraries
in many popular languages. It lets you write apps that create and delete
Blobs and containers, upload and download Blob data, and lists the Blobs
in a container.