Once you've identified
the kind of data you're dealing
with, structured, semi-structured,
or unstructured, the next step is to determine
how you'll use the data. For example, as an
online retailer, you know customers need quick
access to product data and business users need to run
complex analytical queries. As you work through
these requirements, taking your data
classification into account, you can start to plan your
data storage solution. Let's go through some
of the questions to ask when determining what
to do with your data. First, you need to find out the main operations you'll be completing on each data type, and what are the
performance requirements? Ask yourself these questions. Will you be doing simple
lookups using an ID? Do you need to query the database from
one or more fields? How many create, update, and delete operations
do you expect? Do you need to run complex
analytical queries? How quickly do these
operations need to complete? With these questions in mind, let's walk through each
of the examples of the online retailer datasets and discuss the requirements. First, for product catalog data, the customer needs are
the highest priority. Customers will want to query the product catalog
to find, for example, all men's shoes
then men's shoes on sale and then men's shoes on
sale in a particular size. Customer needs may
require lots of read operations with the ability to query on certain fields. In addition, when
customers place orders, the application must
update product quantities. The update operations
need to happen just as quickly as the
read operations so that users don't put an item in their shopping carts when
that item has just sold out. This will not only result in a large number of
read operations, but will also require increased right operations
for product catalog data. Be sure to determine the priorities for all the
users of the database, not just the primary ones. Next, the photos and
videos that are displayed on product pages have
different requirements. They need fast retrieval times, so that they are
displayed on the site at the same time as
product catalog data. But they don't need to be
queried independently. Instead, you can rely on the results of the
product query and include the video ID or URL as a property on
the product data. So photos and videos need only
be retrieved by their ID. In addition, users will not make updates to existing
photos or videos. They may, however, add new
photos for product reviews. For example, a user might upload an image of themselves
showing off their new shoes. As an employee, you also upload and delete product
photos from your vendor. But that update
doesn't need to happen as fast as your other
product data updates. Finally, for business data, all the analysis happens
on historical data. No original data is updated
based on the analysis, so business data is read only. Users don't expect their complex analytics
to run instantly, so having some latency
in the results is okay. In addition, business data will be stored in multiple datasets, as users will have
different access to write to each dataset. However, business
analysts will be able to read from all databases. You've learned
that when deciding on what storage solution to use, you need to think about how
your data will be used, how often your data
will be accessed, whether your data is read-only, and if query time matters. The answers to these
questions will help you decide on the best storage
solution for your data.