Organizations often have multiple storage
accounts to let them implement different sets of requirements. In the chocolate manufacturer example,
there would be one storage account for the private business data and
one for the consumer facing files. Here, you will learn the policy factors
that are controlled by a storage account, which will help you decide
how many accounts you need. Microsoft, Azure provides
many ways to store your data. There are multiple database options
like Azure sequel database, Azure, Cosmos DB and Azure Table Stories. Azure offers multiple ways to store and
send messages, such as Azure queues and event hubs. You can even store loose files using
services like Azure files and Azure blobs. As you selected four of
these data services and place them together under
the name Azure storage. The four services are Azure blobs, Azure
files, Azure tables and Azure queues. These four were given special treatment
because they are all primitive cloud based storage services and are often
used together in the same application. A storage account is a container that
groups a set of Azure storage services together. Only data services from Azure storage
can be included in a storage account. Here you have an example of a storage
account that contains several Azure services such as Azure blobs,
Azure files as your cues and Azure tables. Combining data services into a storage
account lets you manage them as a group. The settings you specify when
you create the account or any that you change after creation
are applied to everything in the account. Deleting the storage account deletes
all of the data stored inside it. A storage account is a resource
in Azure which contains services. The storage account as a resource
will be stored in a resource group. An Azure subscription can contain
multiple resource groups, where each group contains one or
more storage accounts. Azure data services that are managed as
independent as your resources include Azure, Cosmos DB and Azure sequel. These services cannot be
included in a storage account. A typical arrangement includes blobs,
files, queues and tables inside storage accounts. While other services are independent. A storage account defines a policy that
applies to all the services in the storage account. For example, you could specify that all
the contained services will be stored in the West US data center. Accessible only over HTTPS and build
to the sales department subscription. The settings that are controlled
by a storage account, our subscription location,
performance replication, accessed here, secure transfer
required and virtual networks. Now let's take a look at the storage
account settings in more detail. The subscription setting defines
the services that will be billed for in the account. The location setting determines the data
center that will store the services in the account. You'll need to determine the best setting
for your performance requirements. Performance determines the data services
that you can have in your storage account and the type of hardware
disks used to store the data. Standard allows you to have
any data service such as blob, file queue and table, and
uses magnetic disk drives. Premium introduces additional services for
storing data. For example, storing unstructured object
data as block blobs or a pin blobs and specialist file storage used to store and
create premium file shares. These storage accounts use solid
state drives or SSD for storage. On top of that, you'll need to protect
your data against hardware failure or natural disaster. The replication setting determines
their strategy at a minimum, as you will automatically maintain
three copies of your data within the data center associated
with the storage account. This is called locally
redundant storage or LRS and guards against hardware failure. But does not protect you from an event
that incapacitates the entire data center. You can upgrade to one of the other
options, such as LRS redundant storage or GRS, to get replication at different
data centers across the world. Another key consideration is how
quickly you'll need to access the blobs in your storage account. The access tier controls this aspect, hot, gives quicker access than cool but
at increased cost. This applies only to blobs and
serves as the default value for new blobs. You can also configure your storage
account to accept requests from secure connections only by setting the secure
transfer required property. This is a security feature that
determines the supported protocols for access enabled, requires HTTPS,
while disabled, allows HTTP. Lastly, you'll need to specify
the virtual network setting. This is a security feature that allows
inbound access requests only from the virtual network you specify. A storage account represents a collection
of settings like location, replication, strategy and subscription owner. You need a storage account for
each specific collection of settings. For example, you want to separate
accounts for administrative purposes. You have one location
setting in West US and another in north Europe where you
have a collection of settings. You should create a separate storage
account, for each collection. The number of storage accounts you
need is typically determined by your data diversity, cost sensitivity and
tolerance for management overhead. Organizations often generate data
that differs in where it is consumed, how sensitive it is, which group pays
the bills and so on, diversity along. Any of these vectors can lead
to multiple storage accounts. Let's consider two examples. Do you have data that is
specific to a country or region? If so, you might want to locate it
in a data center in that country for performance or compliance reasons. You will need one storage account for
each location. Do you have some data that is proprietary
and some for public consumption? If so, you could enable virtual networks
for the propriety data and not for the public data. This will also require
separate storage accounts. In general, increased diversity means
an increased number of storage accounts. A storage account by itself
has no financial cost. However, the settings you choose for the account do influence the cost
of services in the account. You can use multiple storage
accounts to reduce costs. For example, you could partition your data
into critical and non critical categories. You could place your critical data into
a storage account with Geo redundant storage or GRS. And you can put your non critical data in
a different storage account with locally redundant storage or LRS. Each storage account
requires some time and attention from an administrator
to create and maintain. It also increases complexity for anyone
who adds data to your cloud storage. Everyone in this role needs to understand
the purpose of each storage account so they can add new objects
to the correct account. Storage accounts are a powerful tool
to help you get the performance and security you need while minimizing costs. A typical strategy is to start with
an analysis of your data and create partitions that share characteristics like
location billing and replication strategy. And then create one storage account for
each partition.