The storage account
settings we've already covered apply to the data
services in the account. Here, we will discuss the
three settings that apply to the account itself rather than to the data
stored in the account. Name, deployment model,
and account kind. These settings impact
how you manage your account and the cost
of the services within it. Let's take a more detailed look. Each storage account has a name. The name must be globally
unique within Azure, use only lowercase
letters and digits, and be between three
and 24 characters. A deployment model
is the system Azure uses to organize your resources. The model defines the API
that you use to create, configure, and manage
those resources. Azure provides two
deployment models. Resource Manager,
the current model that uses the Azure
Resource Manager API, and Classic, a
legacy offering that uses the Azure Service
Management API. Most Azure resources only
work with Resource Manager, and makes it easy to decide
which model to choose. However, storage accounts,
virtual machines, and virtual networks
support both. You must choose one or the other when you create
your storage account. Azure uses Azure Resource
Manager for its resources, and as part of this, the resource manager requires a resource to be created
in a resource group. A resource group
lets you deploy and manage a collection of
resources as a single unit. Microsoft recommends
that you use Resource Manager for
all new resources. Storage Account Kind is a set
of policies that determine which data services
you can include in the account and the
pricing of those services. There are three
storage accounts. Storage v2 or
General Purpose v2, the current offering
that supports all storage types and all
of the latest features. Storage or General Purpose v1, a legacy kind that supports all storage types but may
not support all features. Blob storage, a legacy kind that allows only block blobs
and append blobs. Microsoft recommends
that you use the General Purpose v2 option
for new storage accounts. There are a few special cases that can be exceptions
to this rule. For example, pricing for transactions is lower
in General purpose v1, which would allow you
to slightly reduce cost if that much is
your typical workload. The other options still
exist primarily to allow existing resources
to continue operation. For new resources, there are few reasons to consider
the other choices. The core advice
here is to choose the Resource Manager
deployment model and the Storage v2 or General Purpose v2 account kind for all
your storage accounts.